# Cleaning-data-with-R
This repository shows how I cleaned data with R. 
# About the project and dataset
In this project, i reviewed a scenario and focused on cleaning real data in R. In this scenario, i was asked by a hotel booking company to clean a .csv file that was created after querying a database to combine two different tables from different hotels. In order to learn more about this data, i will be using functions to preview the data's structure, including its columns and rows and basic cleaning functions to prepare this data for analysis. Below is the link to the dataset.
# https://d3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net/GL0bk8O2Sja9G5PDtko2uQ_31e445d7ca64417eb45aeaa08ec90bf1_hotel_bookings.csv?Expires=1705363200&Signature=f-pGw8FyizEFgaK6NmgsM43xjiRZkzLeKKM-jpnHIGz7FdD0uTT7LZfrDKgk7DxpN3vsIQAVSoxgApSsrNm7JqHBrRobgUk3ltIFur6i9-3MVKZSBTEISsdTE3KgmbBo2c7Eg1yDOQWShj7Um0d6DKfmr770EgsHkye6Uv24EMg_&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A
# Description
Logged into Rstudio, Installed the required packages 'tidyverse, skimr, janitor' and loaded the packages by running the 'library()' function. The data i have been asked to clean is currently an external .csv file. In order to view and clean it in `R`,i will need to import it. I used the `read_csv()` function to import the data from the project folder called "hotel_bookings.csv" and saved it as a data frame called `bookings_df`. Took some time to explore and preview my data with some functions that i was already familiar with like the `head()` function, `str()` and `glimpse()` functions, `colnames()` to check the names of the columns in the data set and `skim_without_charts()` function to provides a detailed summary of the data. i ran codes with all this functions to get a better view and understanding of my data. I proceeded to clean the data,  being interested in the following variables: 'hotel', 'is_canceled', and 'lead_time'. I Created a new data frame with just those columns, calling it `trimmed_df`. I noticed that some of the column names aren't very intuitive, so i renamed them to make them easier to understand. I created the same exact data frame as above, but rename the variable 'hotel' as 'hotel_type' to be crystal clear on what the data is about.
Next i combined the arrival month and year into one column using the unite() function and used the`mutate()` function to create a new column that summed up all the adults, children, and babies on a reservation for the total number of people. Calculated the total number of canceled bookings and the average lead time for booking by making a column called 'number_canceled' to represent the total number of canceled bookings and a column called 'average_lead_time' to represent the average lead time Using the `summarize()` function. Below is the link to the Rstudio project.
# https://posit.cloud/content/7357726
# Summary
`R` is such a powerful tool for data analysis because you can perform so many different tasks in one place. I applied data cleaning functions and performed basic calculations to gain initial insights into the data. I imported, got to know the data, cleaned the data, combined columns and calculated some summary statistics.
